This demonstration will introduce Arquillian,
a testing framework for Java that leverages JUnit to execute
the test cases against the Java container.
The Arquillian framework is broken up into three major sections,
test runners, JUnit in our case, containers,
wield, open web base, Tomcat, GlassFish,
and so on, and test enrichers,
integration of your test case into the container that your code is running in.
ShrinkWrap is an external dependency to be used with Arquillian.
ShrinkWrap helps us define the deployments and the descriptors to be
loaded to the Java container we are testing against.
As testing framework that executes test cases against the java container,
Arquillian usage requires some understanding of more advanced
notions related to Java Enterprise edition.
As it is widely spread for integration testing,
we have decided to use it for our application and we'll try
to explain the most important ideas so that you can quickly
adopt it within your projects.
Arquillian can be considered a standardized testing framework
for Java Enterprise edition applications.
It abstracts the container or application startup logic away
from the unit tests and instead drives a deployment runtime
paradigm with the application.
It allows to deploy the program to a Java Enterprise edition application server.
Arquillian allows to deploy the application to the
targeted runtime to execute best cases.
The targeted runtime can be an application server embedded or managed.
Starting our journey to adopt Arquillian,
we'll first add the Java Enterprise edition 7 API to the class path,
and we're asking IntelliJ to import the changes.
Then we insert into POM XML, the Arquillian API dependency,
and we'll lead the ID to import the changes.
We add the Arquillian JUnit integration dependency,
and we import the changes,
and we'll also need to add a container adapter to the list of
dependencies and to import the changes.
We have to mention that, at least for the moment,
Arquillian has some limitation.
As you are recording this course, it is not yet integrated with JUnit5.
So we'll have to use the JUnit for dependencies and annotations
to run our tests and to import the changes.
We are now ready to write our first effective Arquillian test.
An Arquillian test looks just like a unit test, but with some extra additions.
We have named our test FlightWithPassengersTest in order to
show the integration between the two classes.
Now about the extra additions, an Arquillian test case must have three things,
a runWith Arquillian.class annotation on the class,
a public static method annotated with deployment
that returns a ShrinkWrap archive, and at least one method annotated with test.
Let's just add an empty method of this kind to fulfill the conditions,
and we'll insert its code at a later time.
Remember, as Arquillian is not integrated with JUnit5,
this test annotation comes from JUnit4.
The RunWith annotation tells JUnit to use Arquillian as the test controller.
Arquillian then looks for a public static method annotated with the
deployment annotation to retrieve the test archive.
Then each test annotated method is running inside the container environment.
The purpose of the test archive is to isolate the classes and resources which
are needed by the test from the remainder of the class path.
Unlike a normal unit test, Arquillian does not seem to tap the entire class path.
Instead, you include only what the test needs,
which maybe the entire class path if that's what you decide.
The archive is defined using ShrinkWrap,
which is a Java API for creating archives like jar,
var, or EAR in Java.
The micro deployment strategy lets you focus on
precisely the classes you want to test.
As a result, the test remains varying and manageable.
For the moment, we have included only the passenger and the flight classes.
Once the ShrinkWrap archive is deployed to the server,
it becomes a real archive.
The container deployer has no knowledge that the
archive was packaged by ShrinkWrap.
So we have provided the infrastructure for using Arquillian in our project. We'll move to fully introduce it and run our integration tests with its help.